	In recent years, politicians throughout the United States have claimed that the presence of large retail stores will create employment opportunities, consequently reducing poverty. However, there is a lack of empirical proof of this age old campaign promise. This project analyzes this claim using real world data.
	This project seeks to prove the hypothesis that when a retail store that accepts SNAP opens in a low income area, the number of people on SNAP in that area does not change more than when a retail store that accepts SNAP opens in a high income area.
	In order to analyze this hypothesis, several data sources were used. Bi-Annual (January and July) State Project Area/County Level Participation and Issuance Data from usda.gov provided data on SNAP participants at the county level. usda.gov also provided data on openings of stores which accept SNAP. A dataset mapping zipcodes to counties, from huduser.gov, was used to map these retailers' zipcodes to the county level. /data/raw/ZIPincome/IncomePop.gz was used to tag counties with incomes in order to classify counties as low, middle, or high income.
	First, median income was mapped to county level from zipcode level. This was done by taking a weighted average of median incomes based on percent of population of each zip code contained in the county. Each county was then tagged as lower, middle, or upper class based on the classifications found at https://www.investopedia.com/financial-edge/0912/which-income-class-are-you.aspx, which categorizes an income <$42,000 as lower class, between $42,000 and $126,000 as middle class, and >=$126,000 as upper class.
	We take this a step further by saying that as these retailers open, they will create a certain amount of jobs, depending on the type of retailer. In order to see if there is the same change in SNAP participants as more retailers open, expected number of jobs created in each county was computed. This was accomplished by generating an employment model in order to estimate the number of jobs expected to be created as each retailer opened. Each retailer type was mapped to number of jobs expected to be created. Next, the number of expected jobs per county per year was generated based on the data source detailing which retailers opened in each zip code each year. The zipcode level data was mapped to county level data. After calculating the expected number of jobs created per year, the single year per county with the highest expected jobs was chosen to be analyzed further. This is a very generous step to take in the analysis given that it gives the most opportunity for the many jobs expected to be created to reduce the number of people on SNAP.
	After isolating the year for each county with the greatest expected number of job openings, the actual change in participants of SNAP over the two year period starting at that year was calculated using the Bi-Annual State Project/County Level Participation Data (in this directory, SNAP_DATA/HistoricalSNAPRetailerLocatorDataTab.tsv). These two numbers (expected job openings and actual change in people on SNAP) were plotted against one another. Three seperate graphs were generated, one for each income classification. A best fit line was imposed on the graph and used to analyze the results.
	For low income counties, the best fit line has a slight positive slope, meaning that as number of jobs expected increased, so did the number of people on SNAP. This is a very interesting finding. Although correlation does not prove causation and many other factors were certainly at play, it is noteworthy that poverty seemed to increase as more retail stores opened in low income counties.
	This is even more interesting upon analyzing the graphs of middle and high income counties. Both of these graphs feature a negative slope, meaning that as more jobs were expected to be created, less people in those counties were on SNAP. The graph of middle income counties has a more negative slope than the graph of high income counties. It is very interesting that the opening of retailers accepting SNAP seems to have benefitted middle and high income counties more than low income counties.
	The hypothesis of this analysis was proven wrong. Based on the three graphs generated, the number of people on SNAP in low income areas changes less than the number of people on SNAP in middle and high income areas as retail stores open that accept SNAP. As more retailers open in middle/high income areas, poverty in these areas appear to decrease (using number of people on SNAP as a measure of poverty in the area). However, when more retailers open in low income areas, not only does poverty not decrease, but there is a slight upwards trend in people on SNAP.
